# aws-manage-users-crud
create and list users with aws services: lambda functions, api gateway and dynamodb

infra as code: using SAM and cloud formation

## Deploy the sample application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools:

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build --use-container
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts:

## Use the SAM CLI to build locally

Build the Lambda functions in your application with the `sam build --use-container` command.

```bash
aws-manage-users-crud$ sam build --use-container
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `functions/*/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

## Add a resource to your application
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
aws-manage-users-crud$ sam logs -n StockCheckerFunction --stack-name "aws-manage-users-crud" --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the test dependencies and run tests.

```bash
aws-manage-users-crud$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt --user
# unit test
aws-manage-users-crud$ python -m pytest tests/unit -v
# integration test, requiring deploying the stack first.
# Create the env variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME with the name of the stack we are testing
aws-manage-users-crud$ AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME="aws-manage-users-crud" python -m pytest tests/integration -v
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
sam delete --stack-name "aws-manage-users-crud"
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
